SOURCE: Heart. Hook. Home.
DESCRIPTION: Argyle Shell Crochet Stitch Tutorial
URL: https://hearthookhome.com/argyle-shell-crochet-stitch-tutorial/
---
Reddit
8

Threads

The Argyle Shell Stitch is gorgeous and lightweight. It is airy and perfect for summer tops and beach cover ups! Learn this beautiful crochet stitch set with this Argyle Shell tutorial!

 ChatGPT 

 Google AI 

 Claude 

Add as a Google source

Argyle Shell Crochet Stitch Tutorial

The Argyle Shell is perfect for lightweight yarns to make tops, tunics, or wraps, such as my NEW and FREE 
Shell Yeah! Tunic pattern
. You will want to 
block
 your finished piece to really see the stitch definition. In this tutorial I have color coordinated the rows and there is a VIDEO tutorial below!

The Argyle Shell stitch set is a four row repeat. To start this pattern, you will need to chain a multiple of EIGHT + TWO for foundation chain.

Foundation

For this tutorial we will start with a chain of 24 + 2 for a total of 26 chains.

Next you will single crochet in the second chain from the hook. Chain five, skip the next three chains, and single crochet in the next chain. Repeat the chain five, skip three chains, single crochet in the next chain to the end of the row. You should end with a single crochet in the last chain.

Now that you’ve got your foundation prepared, you will continue adding the following four row repeat for the duration of the pattern. See the VIDEO tutorial for this stitch below!

Note that one SHELL = double crochet, ch-1, double crochet, ch-1, double crochet all in the same stitch.

First row of the four row repeat:

Chain 5, turn, * sc around ch-sp, shell in next sc, sc around next ch-sp. Ch-5 * repeat between * * 1 more time. Sc around next ch-sp, shell in next sc, sc around ch-sp. Ch-2, dc in last st. 

Second row of the four row repeat:

Ch-1, turn, sc in first st. * Shell in next sc, sc in center dc of next shell, shell in next sc. Sc around next ch-sp * repeat between * * 1 more time. Shell in next sc, sc in center dc of next shell, shell in next sc, sc in 3rd ch from beg ch. 

Wanna save this for later?
We'll email this post to you, so you can come back to it when you're ready.

Third row of the four row repeat:

Ch-5, turn, * sc in center dc of next shell, shell in next sc, sc in center of next shell, ch-5 * repeat between * * 1 more time. Sc in center dc of next shell, shell in next sc. Sc in center dc of next shell. Ch-2, dc in last st.

Fourth row of the four row repeat:

Ch-1, turn. Sc in first st, ch-5, * sc in center dc of next shell. Ch-5, sc around next ch-sp, ch-5 * repeat between * * 1 more time. Sc in center dc of next shell. Ch-5, sc in 3rd ch from beg ch. 

To continue with the pattern, start over with the first row of the four row repeat and continue adding the argyle shells until the piece is as tall as you like. In this photo I have completed two of the four row repeats.

To end the piece, you’ll want to replace the final (fourth) row of the four row repeat with this row:

Ch-1, turn. Sc in first st, * ch-3, sc in center dc of next shell, ch-3, sc around next ch-sp * repeat between * * to end. Ch-3, sc in center dc of last shell, ch-3, sc in 3rd ch from beg ch.

At the end of this final row you should have the same multiple of eight that you started with, plus one stitch. In this instance that would be 25 stitches because we started with a foundation of 26.

Argyle Shell Video Tutorial

I hope you love this fun stitch. You will need this stitch in my newest, free crochet pattern: The 
Shell Yeah! Tunic
!

More crochet stitch tutorials:

How to Crochet the Picot Stitch

How to Crochet the Bobble Stitch: Written and Video Tutorial

Waffle Stitch Tutorial

How to Make Stitch Markers and Hook Reminders