SOURCE: Amanda Crochets: Handmade with Love
DESCRIPTION: How to Make the Basket Weave Stitch
URL: https://www.amandacrochets.com/how-to-make-the-basket-weave-stitch/
---
Share
Pin
3K
3K 
Shares
Hey everyone! In today’s Crochet 101 lesson, I’m going to teach you how to make the basket weave stitch. This stitch is made working groups of 
front post double crochets
 and 
back post double crochets
 along the row. As you work more rows, you will begin to notice that some groups appear to be worked vertically while others horizontally. This effect happens by working different combinations of front and back post double crochets over four different rows.

For today’s tutorial, you will need worsted weight yarn (I’m using Red Heart Super Saver) and a size I-9 crochet hook (I’m using Clover Amour). The basket weave stitch looks great in a solid color, but feel free to change colors for a more interesting look. 
Learn how to change colors here
. Gather up your supplies and let’s begin!

Download the PDF here!

To begin, you will need a multiple of 6 stitches plus 4 more at the end for your foundation chain. For the purposes of this tutorial, I am making 16 chains.

ROW 1: Double crochet into the 4
th
 chain from your hook. Next, make 1 double crochet into each of the remaining stitch across. Chain 2 and turn.

ROW 2: Skip the very first double crochet. *Make a 
front post double crochet
 in the next 3 stitches and a 
back post double crochet
 in the following 3 stitches. Repeat from * to the end of the row. Make 1 double crochet in the top of the turning chain. Chain 2 and turn.

ROW 3: Repeat row 2.

ROW 4: Skip the first double crochet. *Make a back post double crochet in the next 3 stitches and a front post double crochet in the following 3 stitches. Repeat from * to the end of the row. Make 1 double crochet in the top of the turning chain. Chain 2 and turn.

ROW 5: Repeat row 4.

That’s how to make the basket weave stitch! Repeat rows 2-5 over and over again to practice. The basket weave stitch might require some practice at first, but the more you practice, the easier it will become. Use this stitch to create some fun texture in your next crochet project.

Video Tutorial:

I hope you enjoyed today’s tutorial on how to make the basket weave stitch. If you have any questions about today’s tutorial, please leave a comment below. I’d love to hear from you!

Be sure to check out and subscribe to my blog for all future projects, hauls, and much more. As always, thanks for stopping by!

Don’t know how to crochet? 
Click here if you have missed any of my previous Crochet 101 lessons.

Do you know how to crochet already? Have you always thought about opening up an 
Etsy Shop
? Now you can! 
Click here
 where you will earn 40 free listings when you open up your Etsy Shop.

Have you ever thought about starting your own blog? It’s easy as 1-2-3! 
Check out this link here to get started
! I highly recommend using 
Bluehost
 as your website host.

This post might contain affiliate links. View my 
disclosure policy
 for details.

Share this:

Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)

Email

Like this:
Like

Loading…

Share
Pin
3K
3K 
Shares