SOURCE: Stardust Crochet: Inspire, Learn, Create
DESCRIPTION: How to Crochet: Bead Stitch; Stitch Explorer Series
URL: https://stardustgoldcrochet.com/how-to-crochet-bead-stitch-video-tutorial-for-beginners-stitch-explorer-series/
---
Facebook

This weeks Stitch Explorers cover the Bead Stitch. The bead stitch creates beautiful puffs and is very similar to the pineapple and pineapple puff stitch. It combines two basic stitches, the single crochet and the double crochet, which makes it perfect for a beginner to learn! 

You can come back to 
this link
 and explore the rest of the stitches, there is so much to learn!

This is the fourth of five stitches we are going to learn leading up to creating the coolest 5 stitch project ever! The first stitch to learn is the alternating spike stitch, and you can check that out that tutorial by clicking 
here
. The second stitch is the Open Ridge stitch and you can find that tutorial 
here
. The third is the Pique Stitch and you can find that one 
here
. 

On to number 4! The Bead Stitch…

This stitch uses two basic stitches in a two row repeat. The double crochet & the single crochet The pattern goes as follows:

+ Abbreviations

scl
slanted cluster
dc
double crochet
fsc
foundation single crochet
ch
chain
yo
yarn over
st(s)
stitch(es)

+ Stitch Guide:

sc – single crochet

insert hook in
indicated st, yo, draw up a loop, yo draw through both loops on hook.

dc – double crochet

yo, insert hook
in indicated st, yo, draw up a loop, *yo, draw through 2 loops* – repeat from *
to * until you have one loop left on the hook.

scl – slanted single crochet

*yo, inert hook around post of prev double crochet, from right to left, yo, pull up a loop* – 3 times in around the same dc. yo, pull through 6 loops, yo, pull through 2 loops. 

fsc
– foundation single crochet

create a slip
knot.  ch 2, insert hook in 1
st

chain.  yo, draw up a loop.  ch 1, yo, draw through both loops on
hook.  (2
nd
 st) insert hook in
bottom two loops of ch 1.  yo, draw up a
loop, ch 1, yo, draw through both loops (2 fsc created).

Pattern:

Chain an even number of chains – 

or create a 
foundation single croche
t row to start – I recommend the fsc row, but you can work it either way. If you choose to work the foundation single crochet row – it counts as your Row 1.

chain any number of chains (for fsc pattern, see below)

Row 1:

sc
 in 2nd ch from hook and in each chain across. (this will be the wrong side, mark it with a stitch marker)

Row 2:

ch 3, turn
. 
sk 1st, *dc 1 in next st, scl around dc, sk 1* – repeat from * to * to end of row, ending with 1 dc in ch 1. 

Row 3:

ch 1, turn. sk first dc. *sc 1 in scl, sc 1 in dc* – repeat from * to * to end of row, ending with 1 sc in 3rd ch of ch3.

Rows 4 – X:

Repeat 
rows 2 & 3 until you reach your desired height.

If you want to create it with a foundation fsc…

Row 1:
 fsc any even number of stitches.

Rows 2 & 3: 
 repeat rows 2 & 3 from above until you reach desired height.

Here is the a video to help you work it out! Excuse the dog – I’m so sorry! He wouldn’t stop barking :(. lol. 

What should I make with the Bead Stitch?

The fabric the bead stitch creates is a little holey, so it would be perfect as a light sweater, or even a beanie. I was thinking this stitch would be perfect to make a pillow with too! It works up fast and the puffs create a nice soft surface. 

I hope you enjoy this tutorial, and if you have any questions or comments, please leave them below, I would love to talk crochet!

What is your favorite stitch?

What is your favorite type of crochet project?