SOURCE: Hookfully: Happy Crochet Family
DESCRIPTION: Bobble Stitch Tutorial
URL: https://hookfully.com/bobble-stitch-tutorial/
---
Bobble Stitch Tutorial

The 
bobble stitch tutorial
 will help you to crochet a 3D texture, just like little bubbles! Even though it’s single sided, the reverse has a very interesting design too. The bobble stitch can be used for almost any crochet project and is defo one of my favourite 
special stitches
!

How to crochet the bobble stitch

The bobble stitch crochet tutorial is easy to intermediate 
skill level
. Its a 2 row repeat and to complete the tutorial you will need to know the single crochet, instructions are included to learn the bobble stitch. You can use any yarn with its recommended crochet hook size to complete the tutorial.

Tutorial notes 

Supplies

Any yarn

Crochet hook
 recommended for your yarn

Abbreviations

USA Terminology (
UK Translation
)

BO – Bobble stitch 

ch – Chain

sc – Single crochet

Important Information

Disclaimer: this post contains affiliate links. This means I may earn a commission should you choose to make a purchase using my links. It’s okay – I love all of these companies anyways, and you will too!

This pattern in whole or in any part may not be copied, sold, distributed or altered in any way

When sharing the free pattern 
please only share the link to the pattern
. Please DO NOT share screenshots or paid PDF files

Bobble stitch crochet tutorial

Making a bobble Stitch

Yarn over, insert hook & pull up a loop, yarn over, pull through 2 loops on the hook

Repeat 4 more times

Yarn over & pull through all 6 loops on the hook

Pull tight & secure with a chain

Making a Bobble Stitch Swatch 

Row 1

ch multiples of 2 for desired length then start in 2nd ch from the hook

sc in all chains

Row 2

ch & turn

sc in first stitch

(BO, sc) until the end of the row

Row 3

ch & turn

sc in all stitches

Row 4+

Repeat rows 2 & 3 until you reach desired size

Fasten off & weave in ends

 Published: November 23, 2022 | Last Updated: September 25, 2025
Tags:
Chunky Crochet Patterns
DK Crochet Patterns
Intermediate crochet Patterns
Super Bulky Crochet Patterns
Worsted Crochet Patterns

previous
Popcorn Stitch Tutorial
next
Elizabeth Stitch Tutorial