SOURCE: Stardust Crochet: Inspire, Learn, Create
DESCRIPTION: How to Crochet: Coral Mesh; Stitch Explorer Series
URL: https://stardustgoldcrochet.com/how-to-crochet-coral-mesh-crochet-video-tutorial-for-beginners-stitch-explorer-series/
---
Facebook

Welcome to Saturday Stitch Explorers! This week’s stitch is how to crochet Coral Mesh. It’s getting hot outside and I’m looking forward to the beach! I bet you are too, unless you already live somewhere tropical and warm <3. I would love to live by the beach again. I’m a California native and born in Florida. So after moving to Memphis in 1993, I feel like I’m a mermaid out of water for sure. I long for it. Anywhooooo, this stitch was inspired by the beach, and I wanted to create something airy, fresh, open, and easy to adapt to a cover-all or even a mesh bag.

I incorporated a modified Solomon’s Knot into this stitch because it has that open and airy feel too it. You can check out another cool 
Solomon’s Knot
 stitch 
here
. It’s airy too, but also has a little more of a flowery look to it, pictured below.

Solomon’s Knot

Complete video tutorial at bottom of post – for all the visual learners out there.

Do you have a stitch or pattern you’d like a video created? Leave a comment! I’d love to create a video tutorial for you, send me a message from my contact page 🙂 in the “about me” 

Are you ready to learn this new stitch?  Let’s get started!

Coral Mesh by Tasha Margette

For this tutorial I used I Love This Cotton in white, with a 5 mm hook.

The Coral Mesh consists of a modified Solomon’s knot, chains, and half double crochets.

you may also like these stitch tutorials…

You May Like These Stitch Tutorials

Carina Stitch Tutorial

Cornflower Stitch Tutorial

+ Abbreviations

hdc
half double crochet
sc
single crochet
msol
modified Solomon’s knot
ch (s)
chain (s)
sk
skip
yo
yarn over
st(s)
stitch(es)
* … *
repeat from * to * as many times indicated

+ Stitch Guide: 

msol – modified Solomon’s Knot

pull up a long loop (1/2″ to 3/4″). yo, pull through. ch 1.

hdc – half double crochet

yo, insert hook in next st. yo, draw up a loop, yo, pull through all 3 loops on hook.

sc – single crochet

insert hook in next st, yo, pull up a loop. yo, pull through both loops on hook.

Pattern:

Pattern works in multiples of 5 + 2.

to start, chain any multiple of 5 + 2. for this sample pattern, I’ll use 17.

Row 1
: 
sc 1
 in second ch from hook. 
msol 1
, 
sk 4
,
 hdc 1
 in next ch.

Row 2:

ch 1
, 
turn
. 
 hdc 1
 in first hdc. *
msol 1
, 
sk 1 msol
. 
hdc 1
 in next hdc* – rep *…* to end.

rep Row 2 until you reach your desired height.

If you want to create a blanket or garment and know what size you want to make, but not sure how to figure out how many chains to start with, check out my 
Multiples Calculator
. It will calculate how many total chains you need to start your project based on *your* hook and *your* yarn. :D.

Congratulations! You’re finished!

The complete video tutorial is below. 

Pin it!

Coral Mesh Complete Video Tutorial:

What can I make with the Coral Mesh?

This stitch will look wonderful to create a mesh bag, beach back, a beach cover-all, a loose fitting tank cover, and beach dress, the possibilities are endless!

I hope you enjoy this tutorial, and if you have any questions or comments, please leave them below, I would love to talk crochet!