SOURCE: Rich Textures Crochet
DESCRIPTION: Mesh Cluster Stitch; How to Crochet
URL: https://richtexturescrochet.com/mesh-cluster-stitch/
---
This post contains affiliate links. This means that when you purchase through one of these links we will receive a small commission at no additional cost to you. Thank you for supporting Rich Texture Crochet!

The Mesh Cluster stitch is a sturdy mesh design.  It is a wonderful stitch that can be used in a variety of projects!

The Mesh Cluster is an easy design to work and it will work up quickly! It is similar on both sides and, because of the cluster stitches, is fairly strong.  This stitch would work well in projects like market bags, summer tops, shawls and lacy cardigans.  I cannot wait to see what you make with it!

This post contains affiliate links.  This means that when you make a purchase through one of these links, Rich Textures Crochet will earn a small commission at no additional cost to yourself.  Thank you for supporting Rich Textures Crochet!

Materials:

For this tutorial today I will be using a small amount of 
Pima Cotton Yarn by Lion Brand Yarn
. It is a worsted weight yarn. The hook shown in the video below is a 
5 mm Wooden Streamline crochet hook by Furls Crochet
. However you may use any hook and yarn combination you choose.

Don’t forget to check out the free video tutorial below! Also, if you enjoy learning new crochet stitches, you may also wish to check out this tutorial for the 
Raised Herringbone Stitch | How to Crochet
.  Enjoy!

The Mesh Cluster Crochet Stitch:

This stitch is worked in rows in this tutorial.

To begin, make a slip knot and then chain your desired number of chains.  For this stitch pattern you will need a multiple of three stitches and then add two for your foundation chain.

Row One:

Single crochet in the second chain from your hook and in each stitch across.  Chain three (counts as a double crochet) and turn your work.

Row Two:

Double crochet into the next stitch, chain one, skip the next stitch, *work a double crochet cluster in the next stitch ([yarn over and insert your hook into the indicated stitch, yarn over and draw up a loop, yarn over and draw through two loops] three times, yarn over and draw through all the loops on your hook), chain two, skip the next two stitches.

Repeat from * across, to the final four stitches, work a double crochet cluster in the next stitch, chain one, skip the next stitch and work on double crochet in each of the final two stitches.  Chain one and turn your work.

Row Three:

Single crochet in each stitch across, working one single crochet in each chain one space and two single crochet in each chain two space.  Chain three and turn your work.

And that’s it!

For the rest of the pattern repeat rows two and three.  Fasten off and weave in your ends.

Video Tutorial:

The photographs and pattern contained in this document are the property of Rich Textures Crochet.

This pattern is for personal use only.

No unauthorized reproduction, in whole or in part, or distribution of this pattern or content is permitted.  ALL FINISHED PRODUCTS from this pattern can be used for local sales and sold online.

Thank you so much for supporting Rich Textures Crochet! To stay in touch or see more great products, be sure to visit me on Facebook and Instagram (Rich Textures Crochet).  Thanks again! Happy Crocheting!

Share this:

Share on X (Opens in new window)

X

Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Facebook

Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)

Pinterest

Related