SOURCE: The Spruce Crafts
DESCRIPTION: How to Crochet Shell Stitch
URL: https://www.thesprucecrafts.com/how-to-crochet-a-shell-stitch-979096
---
How to Crochet Shell Stitch

Free Pattern for Classic DC Shell in Colorful Striped Rows

By

Amy Solovay

Amy Solovay

Amy Solovay is a needlecraft expert and professional textile designer who designs knitted, printed, and woven fabric for mass production. She shares her lifelong love of needlecrafts by writing tutorials and patterns. Amy has over 20 years of professional textile design and writing experience.

Editorial Process

Updated on September 6, 2024

Credit: Mollie Johanson

 The shell stitch crochet technique is an advanced beginner stitch that adds decorative appeal to afghans, blankets, and more. It makes a great border, or you can work it in rows. Crochet the shell stitch in a single color to create a beautiful texture or change colors from row to row for a more intricate design.

 There are many shell stitch variations, such as v-stitch crochet shell, as well as different ways to incorporate shell stitches into your projects. This version uses four hues, but if you'd rather work yours all in one color, skip the color changes. Of course, you can also use fewer or more than four shades.

 Ready to learn the shell stitch crochet technique? Grab a hook in a size that matches your yarn weight and get started!

 Make the Starting Chain and Begin Row 1 

Mollie Johanson

 Using your first color of yarn, work a starting or foundation chain. The starting chain should have a series of 
chain stitches
 in a multiple of six stitches plus one. For example, when making a swatch, use a starting chain of 31 (five multiples of six plus one extra stitch).

 Work a 
single crochet stitch
 into the second chain stitch from your hook.

 Crochet the First Shell 

Mollie Johanson

 Skip the next two chain stitches, then work a 
double crochet stitch
 into the next chain stitch after that. Work four more double crochet stitches into the same chain stitch, for a total of five double crochets.

 This set of five double 
crochet stitches
 creates the shell.

 Anchor the First Crochet Shell 

Mollie Johanson

 Skip the next two chain stitches. Then work a single crochet stitch into the next chain stitch after the unworked chains. Now you have your first completed crochet shell, anchored on each side.

 Repeat the following:

Skip the next two chains.
Work five double crochet stitches into the next chain stitch.
Skip two chains.
Single crochet in the next chain.

 Repeat until the end of the row, ending with a single crochet in the final stitch.

 A single row of crochet shells like this makes a great trim. You can add it to the border of any crochet project. You can also attach it to fabric, such as tablecloths, napkins, or even quilts, by sewing it on.

 Change Colors and Make a Turning Chain 

Mollie Johanson

 If you want to continue working in the same hue, without doing any color changes, complete the single crochet stitch, but do not end off. Skip the color change instructions and then pick up when you get to the turning chain instructions.

 If you're working rows of shell stitch using more than one shade, work the last single crochet stitch without completing the last step of the stitch.

Attach your new yarn color
 and complete the stitch.

 Work a 
turning chain
 of three chain stitches. This counts as your first double crochet stitch in the new row.

 When working in more color, you may want to 
weave in the ends as you go
. Cut the first color and weave in the end at this point, along with the end generated at the beginning of the work.

 Another option is to 
crochet over the ends
 to secure them.

 Begin Row Two With a Half Shell 

Mollie Johanson

 Turn your work around and work two double crochet stitches into the first stitch. If you count your turning chain as a double crochet stitch, this gives you a total of three stitches at the beginning of the row.

 Anchor the Half Shell 

Mollie Johanson

 Skip the next two stitches, and work a single crochet stitch into the next double crochet. You should work into the center stitch in the grouping of shell stitches in the row below.

 Continue Row Two 

Mollie Johanson

 Skip the next two stitches. Work a group of five double crochets (another shell) into the next stitch.

 Repeat these steps over and over again across the row:

Skip the next two stitches. Work a single crochet stitch into the middle of the next shell.
Skip the next two stitches. Work a group of five double crochet stitches into the next stitch.

 When you reach the end of the row, work three double crochet stitches into the last single crochet, forming another half shell.

 Change Colors and Begin Row 3 

Mollie Johanson

 Change to your next color of yarn and chain one for the turning chain.

 Work a single crochet stitch into the first stitch.

 Repeat this sequence across the row, alternating shell stitches and single crochet stitches all the way across:

Skip the next two stitches. Work a group of five double crochet stitches into the next stitch.
Skip the next two stitches. Work a single crochet stitch into the middle of the next shell.

 At the end of the row, work your last single crochet stitch into the turning chain.

 Crochet Shells: Continue Pattern 

Mollie Johanson

 Repeat rows two and three for your pattern until you reach the desired length for your shell stitch crochet project.

 If you're also working in a color pattern, remember to keep your color pattern consistent as well.

Read More:

Needlecrafts

Crochet

Crochet Basics

Was this page helpful?

Thanks for your feedback!

Tell us why!